== v1.7.2 [2011-11-29] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Add a workaround for Time objects used in generalizedTime fields,
  since Time has a #to_ary.
- Columns down in treewhat output instead of columns across
- Fix inheritance of syntax for datatype conversion


== v1.7.1 [2011-11-28] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Modified filter expressions to eliminate unnecessary ORing
- Efficiency fixes for Treequel::Model#modifications (delete/add -> replace)
- Fixing missing DN attribute/s on Treequel::Model objects created via
  attribute traversal methods.
- Log errors added during validation at ERROR level


== v1.7.0 [2011-11-09] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Treat Treequel::Model#[]= with a nil value on a SINGLE-VALUE
  attribute as a delete.
- Splat the filterspec used in Branchset#not to avoid unnecessary
  filter clauses.
- Efficiency fix for Treequel::Branch#must_attribute_types
- Removed some of the more-redundant/verbose debugging.
- Added Branchset#first with an argument, and a #not mutator.


== v1.6.0 [2011-10-06] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Adding workaround for vendored "sysexits" library under MacOX X 10.7
- Add a log message to Treequel::Model#validate if some validations
  fail.
- Added convenience mutator to Treequel::Branchset for selecting
  operational attributes.
- De-Yard the API docs
- Some fixes for JRuby + jruby-ldap
- Use a modern timezone for the Time tests
- Add a copy constructor to Treequel::Directory to avoid two directory
  objects sharing the same connection
- Adding support for Sun OpenDS schema artifacts (fixes #11)
  * various workarounds for malformed objectClass and attributeType
    declarations
  * Regex encoding fixes for 1.9.2
  * Treequel::Schema.strict_parse_mode flag for enabling the old
    (strict) parsing behavior.


== v1.5.3 [2011-04-07] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Added signature for changeset 1f396aca7d8b

== v1.5.3 [2011-04-07] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

* Don't pollute the gemspec with Yard-only options
* Adding a --no-tls flag to the treequel shell
* Updated the 'treewhat' schema tool.
* Show additional details for some schema objects.
* Adding schema artifacts to the treewhat command
* Include regular attributes (in addition to operational ones) in the
  root_dse, as AD stores everything in regular attributes.

== v1.5.2 [2011-03-17] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

* Manual updates
* Fixing bad time tests uncovered by the DST switch
* Adding an ActiveDirectory schema dump for testing
* Fix for Github issue [ged/treequel GH-1] (closes #7)


== v1.5.1 [2011-02-25] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

* Adding handling of operational attributes to Treequel::Model schema
  validations, updated the subschema test data to a recent OpenLDAP.


== v1.5.0 [2011-02-24] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

* Make Treequel::Model::ObjectClass Enumerable
* Add a default directory to Treequel::Model for creating and
  searching
* Fix delegation to a method that takes a block for
  Treequel::Delegation
* Consistently delete the DN from the entry hash when constructing
  branches and model objects
* Fix Treequel::Branch#-
* Fix Treequel::Branchset#to_hash
* Make dependencies not so pessimistic.


== v1.4.4 [2011-02-10] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

* Add the .gemtest and Manifest to the manifest, bump patch version.
* Make Treequel testable via Gem Testers
* Hack to work around the pointer-mismanagement of LDAP::Mod


== v1.4.3 [2011-02-10] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

* Added gem-testers support
* Added a monkeypatch to work around a memory-corruption issue in 
  ruby-ldap.


== v1.4.2 [2011-02-07] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Fixed missing DEFAULT_EDITOR constant.


== v1.4.1 [2011-02-02] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

More Treequel shell cleanup based on feedback from Michael Hix.

* Fix the signature of the 'quit' command.
* Consistently verify RDN arguments where they're used.


== v1.4.1 [2011-02-02] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfix:

* Fixed result error as fatal exception in Treequel shell

== v1.4.0 [2011-01-31] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enhancements:

* Added a new method: Treequel::Directory#connected?
* Adding reconnect support to the treequel shell

Bugfixes:

* Fixed a bug in Treequel::Branch#copy.
* Escape filter metacharacters in simple filter components


== v1.3.2

Bugfix:

* Ensure the entry hash that's passed to Treequel::Model#apply_applicable_mixins isn't modified; fixes a bug when modifying a new unsaved Model object.


== v1.3.1 [2011-01-17] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Fixed a bug that caused DN attributes in objects created via Treequel::Model.new_from_entry to be doubled.


== v1.3.0 [2011-01-13] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enhancements:

* Made Treequel::Model act more like an ORM -- changes made to the object aren't synced
  with the directory until #save is called. New methods:
  - Treequel::Model#save
  - Treequel::Model#modifications
  - Treequel::Model#modifications_ldif
  - Treequel::Model#validate
  - Treequel::Model#valid?
  - Treequel::Model#errors
  - Treequel::Model#revert
  - Treequel::Model#modified?
  - Treequel::Model#after_initialize
  - Treequel::Model#before_validation
  - Treequel::Model#after_validation
  - Treequel::Model#before_save
  - Treequel::Model#before_create
  - Treequel::Model#before_update
  - Treequel::Model#after_create
  - Treequel::Model#after_update
  - Treequel::Model#after_save
  - Treequel::Model#before_destroy
  - Treequel::Model#after_destroy
  New classes:
  - Treequel::Model::Errors
  - Treequel::ValidationFailed
* Extracted the controls behavior and rewrote the control specs to use it. This is
  so people who may wish to implement their own controls can ensure that it's
  compatible with Treequel.
* Added a directory-introspection tool (treewhat)
* Added Treequel::Model::ObjectClass.create for easy creation of entries that conform
  to an objectClass mixin's criteria
* Treequel::Directory.root_dse now returns Treequel::Branches
* Added Treequel::Directory#reconnect.

Bugfixes:

* Fixed a bug in Treequel::Branch#merge for values that need conversion
* Simplified and removed duplication from the logging code
* Fixed a bug in the proxy method for single-letter attribute names.
* Monkeypatched Date for LDAP time type conversions
* Change the return values of unset attributes to distinguish between 
  SINGLE and non-SINGLE attributes
* Treequel::Branch
  - Check for explicit nil DN in .new
  - Check for nil parent_dn in #parent
  - Use 'top' instead of :top as objectClass default
  - Don't cache attempts to fetch invalid attributes


== v1.2.2 [2010-12-14] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes for Treequel::Branch, Treequel::Model.


== v1.2.1 [2010-12-13] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Converted to Hoe.

Bugfix:

- objectClasses listed in Treequel::Model::ObjectClass.model_objectclasses
  can be Strings, too.

== v1.2.0 [2010-11-30] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Added hash-key conversion so Branches can be constructed with
  Symbol-key hashargs.
- Adding 'Treequel::Branchset#from' mutator for changing the base DN.
- Fixed treequel shell's cp to support relative and absolute DNs
- Converted to RSpec 2.0
